$ 34:1:1 The revelation which Habakkuk the prophet saw . 

$ 34:1:2 Yahweh , how long will I cry , and you will not hear ? I cry out to you <" Violence ! >" and will you not save ? 

$ 34:1:3 Why do you show me iniquity , and look at perversity ? For destruction and violence are before me . There is strife , and contention rises up . 

$ 34:1:4 Therefore the law is paralyzed , and justice never prevails ; for the wicked surround the righteous ; therefore justice comes out perverted . 

$ 34:1:5 <" Look among the nations , watch , and wonder marvelously ; for I am working a work in your days , which you will not believe though it is told you . 

$ 34:1:6 For , behold , I raise up the Chaldeans , that bitter and hasty nation , that march through the width of the earth , to possess dwelling places that are not theirs . 

$ 34:1:7 They are feared and dreaded . Their judgment and their dignity proceed from themselves . 

$ 34:1:8 Their horses also are swifter than leopards , and are more fierce than the evening wolves . Their horsemen press proudly on . Yes , their horsemen come from afar . They fly as an eagle that hurries to devour . 

$ 34:1:9 All of them come for violence . Their hordes face the desert . He gathers prisoners like sand . 

$ 34:1:10 Yes , he scoffs at kings , and princes are a derision to him . He laughs at every stronghold , for he builds up an earthen ramp , and takes it . 

$ 34:1:11 Then he sweeps by like the wind , and goes on . He is indeed guilty , whose strength is his god . >" 

$ 34:1:12 Aren't you from everlasting , Yahweh my God , my Holy One ? We will not die . Yahweh , you have appointed him for judgment . You , Rock , have established him to punish . 

$ 34:1:13 You who have purer eyes than to see evil , and who cannot look on perversity , why do you tolerate those who deal treacherously , and keep silent when the wicked swallows up the man who is more righteous than he , 

$ 34:1:14 and make men like the fish of the sea , like the creeping things , that have no ruler over them ? 

$ 34:1:15 He takes up all of them with the hook . He catches them in his net , and gathers them in his dragnet . Therefore he rejoices and is glad . 

$ 34:1:16 Therefore he sacrifices to his net , and burns incense to his dragnet , because by them his life is luxurious , and his food is good . 

$ 34:1:17 Will he therefore continually empty his net , and kill the nations without mercy ? 


$ 34:2:1 I will stand at my watch , and set myself on the ramparts , and will look out to see what he will say to me , and what I will answer concerning my complaint . 

$ 34:2:2 Yahweh answered me , <" Write the vision , and make it plain on tablets , that he who runs may read it . 

$ 34:2:3 For the vision is yet for the appointed time , and it hurries toward the end , and won't prove false . Though it takes time , wait for it ; because it will surely come . It won't delay . 

$ 34:2:4 Behold , his soul is puffed up . It is not upright in him , but the righteous will live by his faith . 

$ 34:2:5 Yes , moreover , wine is treacherous . An arrogant man who doesn't stay at home , who enlarges his desire as Sheol , and he is like death , and can't be satisfied , but gathers to himself all nations , and heaps to himself all peoples . 

$ 34:2:6 Won't all these take up a parable against him , and a taunting proverb against him , and say , <' Woe to him who increases that which is not his , and who enriches himself by extortion ! How long ? >' 

$ 34:2:7 Won't your debtors rise up suddenly , and wake up those who make you tremble , and you will be their victim ? 

$ 34:2:8 Because you have plundered many nations , all the remnant of the peoples will plunder you , because of men's blood , and for the violence done to the land , to the city and to all who dwell in it . 

$ 34:2:9 Woe to him who gets an evil gain for his house , that he may set his nest on high , that he may be delivered from the hand of evil ! 

$ 34:2:10 You have devised shame to your house , by cutting off many peoples , and have sinned against your soul . 

$ 34:2:11 For the stone will cry out of the wall , and the beam out of the woodwork will answer it . 

$ 34:2:12 Woe to him who builds a town with blood , and establishes a city by iniquity ! 

$ 34:2:13 Behold , isn't it of Yahweh of Armies that the peoples labor for the fire , and the nations weary themselves for vanity ? 

$ 34:2:14 For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of Yahweh's glory , as the waters cover the sea . 

$ 34:2:15 <" Woe to him who gives his neighbor drink , pouring your inflaming wine until they are drunk , so that you may gaze at their naked bodies ! 

$ 34:2:16 You are filled with shame , and not glory . You will also drink , and be exposed ! The cup of Yahweh's right hand will come around to you , and disgrace will cover your glory . 

$ 34:2:17 For the violence done to Lebanon will overwhelm you , and the destruction of the animals , which made them afraid ; because of men's blood , and for the violence done to the land , to every city and to those who dwell in them . 

$ 34:2:18 <" What value does the engraved image have , that its maker has engraved it ; the molten image , even the teacher of lies , that he who fashions its form trusts in it , to make mute idols ? 

$ 34:2:19 Woe to him who says to the wood , <' Awake ! >' or to the mute stone , <' Arise ! >' Shall this teach ? Behold , it is overlaid with gold and silver , and there is no breath at all within it . 

$ 34:2:20 But Yahweh is in his holy temple . Let all the earth be silent before him ! >" 


$ 34:3:1 A prayer of Habakkuk , the prophet , set to victorious music . 

$ 34:3:2 Yahweh , I have heard of your fame . I stand in awe of your deeds , Yahweh . Renew your work in the middle of the years . In the middle of the years make it known . In wrath , you remember mercy . 

$ 34:3:3 God came from Teman , the Holy One from Mount Paran . Selah . His glory covered the heavens , and his praise filled the earth . 

$ 34:3:4 His splendor is like the sunrise . Rays shine from his hand , where his power is hidden . 

$ 34:3:5 Plague went before him , and pestilence followed his feet . 

$ 34:3:6 He stood , and shook the earth . He looked , and made the nations tremble . The ancient mountains were crumbled . The age - old hills collapsed . His ways are eternal . 

$ 34:3:7 I saw the tents of Cushan in affliction . The dwellings of the land of Midian trembled . 

$ 34:3:8 Was Yahweh displeased with the rivers ? Was your anger against the rivers , or your wrath against the sea , that you rode on your horses , on your chariots of salvation ? 

$ 34:3:9 You uncovered your bow . You called for your sworn arrows . Selah . You split the earth with rivers . 

$ 34:3:10 The mountains saw you , and were afraid . The storm of waters passed by . The deep roared and lifted up its hands on high . 

$ 34:3:11 The sun and moon stood still in the sky , at the light of your arrows as they went , at the shining of your glittering spear . 

$ 34:3:12 You marched through the land in wrath . You threshed the nations in anger . 

$ 34:3:13 You went out for the salvation of your people , for the salvation of your anointed . You crushed the head of the land of wickedness . You stripped them head to foot . Selah . 

$ 34:3:14 You pierced the heads of his warriors with their own spears . They came as a whirlwind to scatter me , gloating as if to devour the wretched in secret . 

$ 34:3:15 You trampled the sea with your horses , churning mighty waters . 

$ 34:3:16 I heard , and my body trembled . My lips quivered at the voice . Rottenness enters into my bones , and I tremble in my place , because I must wait quietly for the day of trouble , for the coming up of the people who invade us . 

$ 34:3:17 For though the fig tree doesn't flourish , nor fruit be in the vines ; the labor of the olive fails , the fields yield no food ; the flocks are cut off from the fold , and there is no herd in the stalls : 

$ 34:3:18 yet I will rejoice in Yahweh . I will be joyful in the God of my salvation ! 

$ 34:3:19 Yahweh , the Lord , is my strength . He makes my feet like deer's feet , and enables me to go in high places . For the music director , on my stringed instruments . 


